README.md, before:

# peloton-pace

PelotonPace app is a Peloton Fitness Exercise Health Metrics Tracker and Visualizer

It is designed in Microservices architecture, and consists of following dockerized components:

- peloton-pace-ui (frontend)
- nginx
- config-server
- eureka-server
- api-gateway-zuul-server
- peloton-pace-service
- user-service
- postgres

-----------
**peloton-pace-ui**
- Frontend UI written in React

**nginx**
- single point of entry, which load balances web traffic to "**api-gateway-zuul-server**"
- update "**nginx-conf**" if you wish to change the initial setting of 3 api-gateway-zuul-server instances

**config-server**
- keeps the global config settings shared by all microservices in a centralized location

**eureka-server**
- service registry, which manages all instances of microservices

**api-gateway-zuul-server**
- gateway to underlying microservices such as peloton-pace-service or user-service
- auth-service (JWT) is built into the api-gateway

**peloton-pace-service**
- handles all things related to Peloton data such as querying the external Peloton API

**user-service**
- handles all things related to users such as user profiles data

**postgres**
- Backend datastore. In true ideal microservices, each microservice would have its own datastore, but it is an overkill for PelotonPace app, thus opting for a monolith database shared by all microservices

-----------

### Architecture diagram coming soon...


### Usage

`docker-compose up --build --scale api-gateway-zuul-server=3 --scale peloton-pace-service=3 --scale user-service=3`


### check global config settings
`http://localhost:20001/config-server/config/default`

### check Eureka (Service Registry) on registered microservices
`http://localhost:20002/eureka-server`

### Register User
`POST http://localhost:19999/api/v1/auth/register`
```
{
	"username": "bgreen",
	"password": "roar!",
	"firstname": "Bear",
	"lastname": "Green",
	"email": "bgreen@email.com"
}
```

### Login
`http://localhost:19999/api/v1/auth/login`
```
{
	"username": "bgreen",
	"password": "roar!"
}
```

### Get Users
`http://localhost:19999/api/v1/users/`

`http://localhost:19999/api/v1/users/1`


### Get Peloton Workout History
`http://localhost:19999/api/v1/peloton/get-workout-summary`

* valid Peloton credential required in user profile prior to accessing Peloton API

-----------

## TO DO

* "more" button to fetch more workout histories on the list page
* update the main home page stats and charts to use real data
* react context appears lost upon browser refresh. how to keep it stateful? (localStorage?)
* implement secure password change workflow
* password needs to be encrypted in DB, and should be decrypted before using to make Peloton requests
* add class music playlist
* create a search page with parameters?

-----------

Commit message:

removed security components such as jwt and cors from underlying services and they are handled in the api-gateway layer

README.md, after:

# peloton-pace

PelotonPace app is a Peloton Fitness Exercise Health Metrics Tracker and Visualizer

It is designed in Microservices architecture, and consists of following dockerized components:

- peloton-pace-ui (frontend)
- nginx
- config-server
- eureka-server
- api-gateway-zuul-server
- peloton-pace-service
- user-service
- postgres

-----------
**peloton-pace-ui**
- Frontend UI written in React

**nginx**
- single point of entry, which load balances web traffic to "**api-gateway-zuul-server**"
- update "**nginx-conf**" if you wish to change the initial setting of 3 api-gateway-zuul-server instances

**config-server**
- keeps the global config settings shared by all microservices in a centralized location

**eureka-server**
- service registry, which manages all instances of microservices

**api-gateway-zuul-server**
- gateway to underlying microservices such as peloton-pace-service or user-service
- auth-service (JWT) is built into the api-gateway

**peloton-pace-service**
- handles all things related to Peloton data such as querying the external Peloton API

**user-service**
- handles all things related to users such as user profiles data

**postgres**
- Backend datastore. In true ideal microservices, each microservice would have its own datastore, but it is an overkill for PelotonPace app, thus opting for a monolith database shared by all microservices

-----------

## Architecture diagram coming soon...


## Usage

### Build

`docker-compose up --build --scale api-gateway-zuul-server=3 --scale peloton-pace-service=3 --scale user-service=3`

### UI access on browsers

`http://localhost:19999`

### check global config settings
`http://localhost:20001/config-server/config/default`

### check Eureka (Service Registry) on registered microservices
`http://localhost:20002/eureka-server`

### Register User
`POST http://localhost:19999/api/v1/auth/register`
```
{
	"username": "bgreen",
	"password": "roar!",
	"firstname": "Bear",
	"lastname": "Green",
	"email": "bgreen@email.com"
}
```

### Login
`http://localhost:19999/api/v1/auth/login`
```
{
	"username": "bgreen",
	"password": "roar!"
}
```

### Get Users
`http://localhost:19999/api/v1/user-dashboard/user-service/users`

`http://localhost:19999/api/v1/user-dashboard/user-service/users/1`


### Get Peloton Workout History
`http://localhost:19999/api/v1/peloton/get-workout-summary`

* valid Peloton credential required in user profile prior to accessing Peloton API

-----------

## Lesson Learned

- CORS should only be enabled on the front door (API-Gateway). If underlying services have CORS enabled, it will cause conflicts and browser requests will throw CORS error
- Similarly, JWT Auth should only be done on the front door (API-Gateway / Auth-Service)
- Feign CANNOT propagate errors from underlying microservices to the surface level if the microservice returns an error response. Feign can only catch the status code, but not the message. AND you must implement Custom Feign Error Decoder to handle it properly.
- Do not create ambiguous endpoints with the same number of path variables
    - "GET users/{id}" and "GET users/{username}" will compile and server will start, but you'll get a runtime error if you send a request to either endpoint
- periodically clean up unused docker volumes to avoid seemingly random build failures!
    - "docker volume prune"

## TO DO

* "more" button to fetch more workout histories on the list page
* update the main home page stats and charts to use real data
* react context appears lost upon browser refresh. how to keep it stateful? (localStorage?)
* implement secure password change workflow
* password needs to be encrypted in DB, and should be decrypted before using to make Peloton requests
* add class music playlist
* create a search page with parameters?

-----------
